-: Welcome back.
So we are looking into cluster autoscaler now.
So which is nothing but
17 EKS auto scaling cluster autoscaler.
So as part of its step two we are going to verify
whether our node group whatever we have
has the ASG access or not, right?
So we have created our recent node group
which is nothing but inside the private subnets
as part of 07 section
which is ELB classic and then network load balancers.
So inside that we have created a private node group.
So when we created a private node group
so we have ensured that
so we have the ASG access enabled.
So what does ASG access enable mean?
Auto scaling group access and its equivalent roles
or its equivalent policies will be associated
to the node group role.
In the same way
whenever we created our public subnet also
means like public subnet related node group initially also,
we ensured that we are following the standards
wherein our respective node group,
whatever we created in EKS cluster
always will have the standard stuff.
So if you see here, here also
for our public node group also we ensured that
we created the ASG access.
So that's about it.
So now let's come back to our section here
which is 17 and in step two,
so we verify that ASG access is enabled.
So that's what from command perspective,
but let's go back to our management console
and go to our EC2, right?
So that is what this step outlines, okay?
So whether we have that respective inline policy
associated with our node group, IAM rule.
So running instances,
so we have two EC2 instances available here,
running for our EKS cluster.
And if you go here, the IAM role, right?
So this is the IAM role and if you go inside that
and if you see, there will be a inline policies added. Okay?
So one is for ingress, one is for app mesh
one is for auto scaling, right?
So this is for external DNS.
So if you see here
this is the one whatever you are seeing policy auto scaling.
So this is the one whatever we have given for our ASG access
it auto associated here. Okay?
So for this node, for this node IAM role
node group, IAM role,
this respect to policy auto scaling has been associated.
So we are good with that step now. Okay?
So now we are going to move on with the
deploying our cluster autoscaler in step three.
So there is a direct link available from Kubernetes.
How to install the cluster autoscaler,
which is nothing but
this is the cluster autoscaler auto discover.yaml.
So the same concept, whatever regular Kubernetes supplies,
the same is also associated with the
elastic Kubernetes service which is EKS.
So the same component we can use here.
So and we are using the master thing so that always
we'll use the latest cluster autoscaler stuff.
So let me copy this.
So deploy the cluster autoscaler to your cluster.
So let me come here and I'm going to come out
and then go to 17 and then be ready there.
And anyway, this is from the URL we are deploying.
We really don't need to worry.
So kubectl apply -f and then
I'm installing the cluster autoscaler auto discover.yaml.
So it is creating the equivalent service account
roll bindings and then deployment and all the stuff.
So let me clear this.
And now,
are the cluster autoscaler cf2 evict
annotation to the deployment. Okay?
So which is false, it will be there by default.
So we need to add this annotation. Okay?
So let me copy this and then paste it, right?
So it's getting updated.
So let's wait for it to get updated.
So we have annotated it.
So the next step is to edit the
cluster autoscaler deployment
to add cluster name and then two more parameters.
So in our cluster name field
means like before change it is going to look like this
your cluster name.
So there we are going to give our cluster name as EKS demo1.
So whatever we have created.
So you can even say eks ctl let get clusters
to get our cluster name also,
which is nothing but EKS demo1. Okay?
So this is one change
and we are also going to add two more parameters, okay?
To our cluster autoscaler deployment.
So we need to add those information
at this respective location
under spec containers under command,
so we are going to add this whatever is there with
node group auto discovery information there.
For the cluster name value, we are going to put EKS demo1
and these two additional parameters we are going to add.
So how we are going to do that
using kubectl edit deployment.
So if you see here kubectl and namespace is kube system
and the deployment name is cluster autoscaler.
So let me copy this command and paste it here, okay?
And once we go inside that, so we'll start from
and so shift G will take,
escape shift G will take me to the end of file
and I'll go little up
little up, little up, so you can see it here, right?
So the cluster name,
so here we need to provide the cluster name.
So let me click on insert
and I'll go back, back, back, back, back like this, right?
(keys clanging)
And I'll say EKS demo1 and enter.
I will also copy two more things
which is balance similar node groups
and then skip nodes with system ports false, okay?
So I'm going to also paste those things.
Okay, so now I added two more parameters here,
in addition to my cluster name change. Okay?
So now let me save this and my deployment got edited
which means kubectl get pods -n kube system
if you see there, okay?
So existing cluster autoscaler will get terminated
and the new one will get creating from seven seconds.
You can see this, right?
So that's a good thing. Okay?
So now next thing is to set the cluster autoscaler image
related to our current EKS cluster version. Okay?
So our EKS cluster we are using is 1.16. Okay?
So if we go here
and then go to elastic Kubernetes service, right?
So if we go here, we can find our clusters
and see, we can see 1.16 is our cluster version, okay?
And the new Kubernetes version is available for this cluster
and if you want we can even update it.
So if we can click on this
and then 1.7 is available now, 1.17.
If you want we can upgrade this cluster to 1.7.
I'm not going to do anything now, just I'll cancel this
and then my version is 1.16 as part of 1.16.
So I need to find the cluster autoscaler version also
1.16.minor version, whatever latest available.
That will be my image version here. Okay?
So I'll go to this link here, right?
And open it.
And if you see here, so these are add on resizers.
So let me go down.
So this is vertical pod autoscaler pre-release stuff.
So if you see here cluster autoscaler 1.18, this is okay,
so let me go down, cluster autoscaler 1,17.2
and now here is the cluster autoscaler
1.16.5 is the latest in 16.x versions. Okay?
So we can use 1.16.5 now. Okay?
So that is what I also mentioned here.
So we need to update that using this command.
So at the end, whatever the version is there
you can put it here.
So xy.z you can see here, right?
So mine is 1.16.5
and then kubectl set image deployment
which we have seen in our earlier demos also.
So which is related to rollout changes demo
we have seen this. Okay?
So with set image how you can update your
respective deployments image version. Okay?
So we'll copy this and then run it
so that it will update the version to v.1,16. Okay?
So our deployment is updated.
So verify if for image version got updated. Okay?
So using kubectl get deployment
and then export with yaml, so we can see that. Okay?
So let me clear this and past it here. Okay?
And if you see, go here.
See, now our image is v1.16.5.
It looks good. Okay?
So that's good.
So now this completes the step six
and then now we are moving onto step seven
which is verifying our cluster autoscaler logs. Okay?
So let me copy this and then clear this out
and then paste it. Okay?
So now, if you see that
start refreshing cloud provider instances
and we really don't see any issues
related to our this thing.
Locks look good.
So let's wait for a minute or less than that
to see if any issues we have. Okay?
Node group means reached and all these things
these are standard logs, okay?
So we really don't need to worry.
So zero other pods unschedulables, you can see right?
The sample logs you can see
and then the same we can see it here.
No schedulable,
no schedulable pods are no unschedulable pods,
calculating unneeded nodes, all these things,
it is doing it. Okay?
So in our next lecture
we'll focus on deploying the sample app
and then cluster scale up and then scale in,
we are going to look into.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye. Thank you.